Where are the engaged democratic voters in Georgia right now?

A few states have prominent off year elections, like New Jersey and Virginia, which are having their elections for governor and a few row offices this year. Georgia is not usually one of those, but due to some court cases there are some statewide elections this year in November--those for the Public Service Commission (PSC). Two seats are up for election, and only one of them had a contested Democratic primary--District 3, which makes up the core of the Atlanta metropolitan area. Confusingly, while commission officers must reside in their district, the officers are elected statewide. Therefore, the PSC primary elections are the first major statewide election in Georgia this year, and thus they're our first big signal of which voters are participating and engaged in the state. It's interesting to observe that the simultaneous Republican primary for PSC District 2 had only half as many voters (125,968 for the PSC District 3 D primary, vs. 63,340 for the PSC District 2 R primary).

Since it's an off-year and the PSC seats are not high-visibility offices, the voters who participate in the primary for the PSC election are likely to be the most engaged voters out of all voters in Georgia. Without party registration, the only numbers we can really compare to are actual vote choices in previous statewide elections. The most recent one would be the 2024 presidential election, where Kamala Harris received 2,548,017 votes. A raw calculation of overall % gives us a 'Democratic turnout' of 4.94% compared to 2024.

How does this vary per county?

I've mapped this out in the 'Relative turnout in PSC primary' .pdf document. (created using QGIS, data source is the Georgia Secretary of State). While the data is a little chaotic, there are some notable observations we can make.

Maybe unsurprisingly, most of the higher turnout counties are in the PSC districts actually on the ballot for this year. However, outside of the core of the Atlanta metro, and the highly educated Athens-Clarke County (home of the University of Georgia), urban counties appear to have lower turnout. North Georgia as a whole also had lower turnout. 
There is a large cluster of higher turnout counties in the central/eastern part of the state, and it's interesting that these, like most of the other higher turnout counties, are very rural.

Comparing to the trends in the runoff (which will happen in a couple weeks) and the general election this November will be interesting. 
